SQL: Update documentation on Tableau integration (#60890)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/sql/endpoints/client-apps/tableau-server.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[sql-client-apps-tableau-server]]
=== Tableau Server

Use the {es} JDBC driver and dedicated {es} Tableau Connector to access {es} data from Tableau Server.

IMPORTANT: Elastic does not endorse, promote or provide support for this application; for native Elasticsearch integration in this
product, please reach out to its vendor.

> ==== Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[sql-client-apps-tableau-server-prereqs]]
==== Prerequisites
```

* https://www.tableau.com/products/server[Tableau Server] 2019.4 or later
* {es-sql} <<sql-jdbc, JDBC driver>>
* https://www.elastic.co/downloads/tableau-connector[{es} Connector for Tableau]

> ==== Data loading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[sql-client-apps-tableau-server-load-data]]
==== Load data
```

> First place the downloaded JDBC driver in Tableau Server drivers directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, move or download the JDBC driver to the Tableau Server drivers directory:
```

* Windows: `C:\Program Files\Tableau\Drivers`
* Mac: `/Users/[user]/Library/Tableau/Drivers`

> and the {es} Connector for Tableau in Tableau Server connectors directory. Refer to Tableau Server documentation or make use of the TSM
> command line interface to find out the location of this directory for your installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Move the {es} Connector for Tableau to the Tableau Server connectors
directory. To find the location of this directory, refer to Tableau Server
documentation or use the TSM command line interface.
```

> Then (re)start Tableau Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start Tableau Server.
```

Author: Updated and committed the suggestion: the Server is very likely running by the time a user would configure the connector, unlike the Desktop.

> To load data into a workbook, access the _New Data Source_ functionality (from under _Data_ menu or the dedicated icon). In the _Connect
> to Data_ window, click on the _Connectors_ tab and choose the _Elasticsearch JDBC by Elastic_ entry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To load data into a workbook, add a **New Data Source** from the **Data** menu or using the icon. In the **Connectors** tab of the **Connect to Data_** modal, select **Elasticsearch JDBC by Elastic**.
```

> To load data into a workbook, add a **New Data Source** from the **Data** menu or using the icon. In the **Connectors** tab of the **Connect to Data** modal, select **Elasticsearch JDBC by Elastic**.

Reviewer 2: `Elasticsearch by Elastic`?

> [[apps_tableau_server_from_connector]]
> .Elasticsearch JDBC as data source
> image:images/sql/client-apps/apps_tableau_server_from_connector.png[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[apps_tableau_server_from_connector]]
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/sql/client-apps/apps_tableau_server_from_connector.png[Select Elasticsearch JDBC as the data source]
```

> Provide the details required to connect to your {es} instance and _Sign In_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter the information for your {es} instance, and click **Sign In**.
```

> [[apps_tableau_server_connect]]
> .Sign in
> image:images/sql/client-apps/apps_tableau_server_connect.png[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[apps_tableau_server_connect]]
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/sql/client-apps/apps_tableau_server_connect.png[Sign in]
```

> In Tableau Server's main window then choose the name of {es} instance as the _Database_, select one table that you'd like to load from
> the list (click on the magnifying glass icon to have them all listed) and drag the table over the work area to have the table columns
> listed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the main window, select your {es} instance as the **Database**. Then select a table to load.
```

[[apps_tableau_server_prepare]]

> .Choose table to load
> image:images/sql/client-apps/apps_tableau_server_prepare.png[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/sql/client-apps/apps_tableau_server_prepare.png[Select a table to load]
```

> Finally, generate a report:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, generate a report.
```

> [[apps_tableau_server_report]]
> .Generate a report
> image:images/sql/client-apps/apps_tableau_server_report.png[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[apps_tableau_server_report]]
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/sql/client-apps/apps_tableau_server_report.png[Generate a report]
```
